Initial content for Senders, Receivers and Parameter Sets sections (#9)
AMWA-TV/bcp-006-02: docs/NMOS With H.264.md

These attributes provide information for Controllers and Users to evaluate stream compatibility between Senders and Receivers.

> - [Components](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#components)
>   

Reviewer: BCP-006-01 and other specs have used trailing two spaces to force a line break. This is a feature of GitHub Flavored Markdown (although I now [see](https://github.github.com/gfm/#hard-line-breaks) there's a more visible form using a trailing backslash that I wish we'd known about!)

```suggestion
- [Components](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/flow-attributes/#components)  
```

Author: It seems that an empty line do the job and is more "visual" and natural when editing ... If there is a formal rule for AMWA documents I will comply. Let me know and we could do a single final pass to add the markup compliance edits.

Informative note: The maximum bit rate information relates to the codec profile / level limits and the HRD buffering model. The CBR versus VBR mode of operation of the encoder provide essential clues about the coded bitstream produced.

Informative note: For streams compliant with ST 2110-22, the constant bit rate mode is more appropriately described as a strict-CBR mode where "the video compression or the packetization of the video compression shall produce a constant number of bytes per frame. The packetization shall produce a constant number of RTP packets per frame." For other streams, not compliant with ST 2110-22, it is the constant bit rate definition of the H.264 specification that prevails.

The H.264 encoder associated with the Flow MUST produces an H.264 bitstream that is compliant with the `profile` and `level` attributes.

Examples Flow resources are provided in [Examples](../examples/).

### Senders

This section applies to a Sender directly associated with an H.264 Flow through the Sender's `flow_id` attribute.

> Informative note: When an H.264 Flow is not directly associated with a Sender but with a multiplexed Flow through the Flow's parents attribute, the Sender does not provide H.264 format-specific attributes. A Sender provides such attributes only when the H.264 Flow is directly associated with it. The attributes `parameter_sets_flow_mode` and `parameter_sets_transport_mode` associated with an H.264 Flow that are described in this section get their respective default value of `dynamic` and `in_band`. An H.264 Flow behave according to the `dynamic` and `in_band` modes when there is no associated Sender. See the Sender's format specific (multiplexed) specification for details.

Reviewer: I'm feeling it's safer only to talk about the transports we know in v1.0 of this spec.

RTP payload format of RFC 6184 is the only example we have of a Sender directly associated with an H.264 Flow. So I think it would be much simpler to follow the form of BCP-006-01 and say this section only applies "For Nodes transmitting H.264 using the RTP payload mapping defined by RFC 6184".

Author: NDI is another one

> Informative note: When an H.264 Flow is not directly associated with a Sender but with a multiplexed Flow through the Flow's parents attribute, the Sender does not provide H.264 format-specific attributes. A Sender provides such attributes only when the H.264 Flow is directly associated with it. The attributes `parameter_sets_flow_mode` and `parameter_sets_transport_mode` associated with an H.264 Flow that are described in this section get their respective default value of `dynamic` and `in_band`. An H.264 Flow behave according to the `dynamic` and `in_band` modes when there is no associated Sender. See the Sender's format specific (multiplexed) specification for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Informative note: When an H.264 Flow is not directly associated with a Sender but with a multiplexed Flow through the Flow's parents attribute, the Sender does not provide H.264 format-specific attributes. A Sender provides such attributes only when the H.264 Flow is directly associated with it. The attributes `parameter_sets_flow_mode` and `parameter_sets_transport_mode` associated with an H.264 Flow that are described in this section get their respective default value of `dynamic` and `in_band`. An H.264 Flow's behviour is dictated by the `dynamic` and `in_band` modes when there is no associated Sender. See the Sender's format specific (multiplexed) specification for details.
```

Author: done

  Informative note: This definition is consistent with the definition of the bit rate attribute (b=) required by ST 2110-22 in the SDP media description. There is no such SDP attribute in RFC 6184.

- [Packet Transmission Mode](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/sender-attributes/#packet-transmission-mode)
  
  A Sender using the non-interleaved or interleaved packetization modes MUST include the `packet_transmission_mode` attribute and set it to either `non_interleaved_nal_units` or `interleaved_nal_units`. The `packet_transmission_mode` attribute maps the the RFC 6184 `packetization-mode` parameter with `single_nal_unit` corresponding to value 0, `non_interleaved_nal_units` to value 1 and `interleaved_nal_units` to value 2. Since the default value of this attribute is `single_nal_unit`, the Sender MAY omit this attribute when using that mode. 

- [ST 2110-21 Sender Type](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/sender-attributes/#st-2110-21-sender-type)
  
  If the Sender complies with the traffic shaping and delivery timing requirements for ST 2110-22, it MUST include the `st2110_21_sender_type` attribute.

> - [Parameter Sets Flow Mode](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos-parameter-registers/branches/main/capabilities/#parameter-sets-flow-mode)

Reviewer: Could/should Parameter Sets Flow Mode be an attribute of the Flow?

Author: Looks like a Sender attribute to me ... being able to support flow that change dynamically is not a property of the flow but the sender and receiver ... the exception is the strict mode where is also has a meaning for the flow (encoder) but at the origin it was dynamic versus static.

  All the parameter sets used by the bitstream MUST be compliant with the `profile-level-id` parameter explicitely or implicitely declared in the stream's associated SDP transport file. The parameter sets MAY be specified out-of-band using the `sprop-parameter-sets` parameter of an SDP transport file, in-band through the H.264 bitstream or in-and-out-of-band usign both mechanisms. See the "Parameter Sets" section for more details.

  A Receiver supporting `in_and_out_of_band` MUST also support the `in_band` and `out_of_band` modes. Such Receiver SHOULD have all "in_band", "out_of_band" and "in_and_out_of_band" values enumerated in the Receiver Capabilities in order to allow Senders operating in any `parameter_sets_transport_mode`.

> For Nodes consuming H.264 using the RTP payload mapping defined by RFC 2250, the Receiver resource MUST indicate `urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp` or one of its subclassifications for the `transport` attribute.

Reviewer: Maybe need a heading here to separate RFC 6184 from RFC 2250 paragraphs?

Author: done

Informative note: The `static` mode allows multiple SPS and PPS to be used by the coded bitstream as long as the active values associated with Flow attributes do not change. For example scaling list are allowed to change when the profile allows it.

> A Receiver with this capability set to `dynamic` supports that a coded stream uses parameter sets that MAY be associated with multiple Flows. Such parameter sets MAY be obtained out-of-band or in-band according to the Receiver `parameter_sets_transport_mode` Capability. When obtained out-of-band the `sprop-parameter-sets` parameter of an SDP transport file or the parameter sets from a transport specific out-of-band mechanism MAY contain parameter sets associated with multiple Flows. When obtained in-band the `sprop-parameter-sets` parameter of an SDP transport file or the parameter sets from a transport specific out-of-band mechanism MUST be empty or omitted and the Sender MAY transmit in-band parameter sets to update parameter sets initially received out-of-band or to add and update new ones. At all time, the Sender is allowed to transmit in-band parameter sets that are duplicates of the parameter sets obtained either out-of-band or in-band. When obtained in-and-out-of-band, in-band parameter sets have priority over out-of-band parameters sets.

Reviewer: Is this Flows in the sense of NMOS Flow resource? I'm a bit confused by that if so.

Author: Maybe I should add that these Flows are those visible on the Sender side "...a coded stream uses parameter sets that MAY be associated with multiple Flows **on the Sender.**"

### Senders

> A Sender is allowed, unless constrained by IS-11, to produces an H.264 coded stream that is compliant with the `profile` and `level` of the associated Flow. Such a Sender MAY use one or multiple active parameter sets as per the [H.264][] specification. A Sender MAY seamlessly change dynamically the coded stream's active parameter sets, provided that the Flow associated with the Sender changes accordingly and the content of the SDP transport file does not change. If the content of the SDP transport file changes, the Sender MUST comply with IS-04, IS-05. A Sender indicates its mode of operation with the `parameter_sets_flow_mode` and `parameter_sets_transport_mode` attributes.

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused...
"Allowed" or "REQUIRED"?
And even if constrained by IS-11, the stream MUST be compliant with the `profile` and `level`?

Author: "allowed" ... think of width, height, bit rate ... a Sender can produce a stream with width., height, bit rate that is compliant with the profile and level ... unless IS-11 put constraints on width, height, bit rate, etc ...

Author: will be adding "any" ... "A Sender is allowed, unless constrained by IS-11, to produces any H.264 coded stream ..." and change is allowed for MAY ... There is already normative text requiring an encoder to produce a stream that is compliant with the profile and level.

If the Sender meets the traffic shaping and delivery timing requirements specified for ST 2110-22, the SDP transport file MUST also comply with the provisions of ST 2110-22.

Informative note: ST 2110-22 does not require the `sampling` or `depth` SDP parameters. RFC 6184 does not define any such SDP parameters. The `sampling` and `depth` of the associated uncompressed picture could be derived from the H.264 active parameter sets by a Receiver.

If the Sender meets the traffic shaping and delivery timing requirements specified for IPMX, the SDP transport file MUST also comply with the provisions of IPMX.

An example SDP file is provided in the [Examples](../examples/).

#### Other transports

For Nodes transmitting H.264 using other transports, the Sender resource MUST indicate the associated `urn:x-nmos:transport:` label of the transport or one of its subclassifications for the `transport` attribute.

Sender resources provide no indication of media type or format, since this is described by the associated Flow resource.

> The `manifest_href` attribute MAY be `null` if an SDP transport file is not supported by the transport. Otherwise the SDP transport file MUST comply the transport specific requirements. There is no SDP format-specific parameters requirements for transports other than RTP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `manifest_href` attribute MAY be `null` if an SDP transport file is not supported by the transport. Otherwise the SDP transport file MUST comply with the transport specific requirements. There is no SDP format-specific parameters requirements for transports other than RTP.
```

Author: done
